report/05_Implementation.md, before:

# Chapter 5: Implementation

## 5.1 Development Environment

The project was developed in a robust local environment designed to ensure stability and performance. We utilized **Windows 10/11** as the primary Operating System. The core coding was done in **Visual Studio Code (VS Code)**, enriched with extensions for Python, Prettier, and ESLint to maintain code quality. **Git** was employed for source code management, allowing us to track changes and revert to previous states if necessary. For dependency management, we used `pip` for Python libraries and `npm` for JavaScript packages, ensuring that all libraries were kept up to date and compatible.

## 5.2 Backend Implementation

The backend serves as the "Brain" of the application, hosting the machine learning logic, processing data, and serving the API.

### 5.2.1 Directory Structure and Organization
The backend is organized as a micro-application to separate concerns. The `app.py` file serves as the main entry point, initializing the Flask Server. The `analyst.py` file contains the `YouTubeAnalyst` class, which encapsulates all Machine Learning logic. `requirements.txt` lists the dependencies, and `model.joblib` is the serialized Random Forest Model. This structure allows for easy navigation and maintenance.

### 5.2.2 The Analyst Module (`analyst.py`)
This is the core class responsible for handling data. It handles **Initialization** by loading the CSV dataset and training the model if `model.joblib` is missing. It uses **Encapsulation**, wrapping all logic in the `YouTubeAnalyst` class, following Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) principles. It also defines the **Pipeline**, setting up Scikit-Learn pipelines for preprocessing (Imputation -> Scaling -> Encoding).

### 5.2.3 API Design (`app.py`)
The Flask application exposes RESTful endpoints to communicate with the frontend. `GET /api/health` is a heartbeat endpoint to check if the server is running. `POST /api/predict` is the primary endpoint that accepts a JSON object (subscribers, views, etc.), calls `analyst.predict_earnings()`, and returns a JSON object with `predicted_earnings` (float) and `feature_importance` (dictionary).

**Code Snippet: Prediction Endpoint Detail**
The following code snippet demonstrates how the prediction endpoint is implemented. Note the use of `try-except` blocks to ensure that any errors during inference are caught and returned as a 500 status code, preventing the server from crashing.

```python
@app.route('/api/predict', methods=['POST'])
def predict():
    data = request.json
    try:
        # The 'analyst' object handles the complex logic of converting 
        # raw JSON into a DataFrame compatible with the model.
        prediction, factors = analyst.predict(data)
        
        # We return a standard JSON response expected by the frontend
        return jsonify({
            'status': 'success',
            'prediction': prediction,
            'factors': factors
        })
    except Exception as e:
        # Robust error handling ensures stability
        return jsonify({'error': str(e)}), 500
```

## 5.3 Frontend Implementation

The frontend serves as the "Face" of the application, ensuring a seamless user experience. It interacts with the backend and presents the data in a visually appealing manner.

### 5.3.1 Tech Stack Selection
**Next.js (React)** was chosen for its component-based architecture and fast rendering capabilities. It allows us to build reusable UI elements. **Tailwind CSS** was selected as a utility-first CSS framework. This allowed for rapid, responsive styling without writing thousands of lines of custom CSS, significantly speeding up the development process.

### 5.3.2 Component Architecture
The UI is broken down into reusable components to promote modularity. `PredictionForm.tsx` contains the input fields (controlled components) and validation logic to ensure data integrity. `Dashboard.tsx` acts as the main container that manages state (loading, error, result) and passes data to children components. `FeatureImportanceChart.tsx` is a visualization component using `Recharts` to display the bar chart of influential metrics.

### 5.3.3 State Management
React's `useState` hook is used to manage local state effectively. `formData` stores the user's current input. `predictionResult` stores the response from the Flask API. `isLoading` is a boolean flag used to toggle loading spinners, enhancing UI responsiveness by giving the user immediate visual feedback that a process is running.

## 5.4 Integration

The integration between Frontend and Backend is achieved via HTTP/JSON. We implemented **CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)** using `Flask-CORS`. This was installed on the backend to allow requests from `localhost:3000` (Frontend) to `localhost:5000` (Backend). Without this, the browser would block the API calls for security reasons. We also used **Proxying**, where the Frontend uses JavaScript's `fetch` API to talk to the backend asynchronous endpoints, ensuring a non-blocking user experience.

## 5.5 Challenges & Solutions during Implementation

### 5.5.1 Challenge: Data Shape Mismatch
One significant challenge was **Data Shape Mismatch**. The user inputs only 5-6 fields, but the trained model expects the original 28 columns (including `0` for all non-selected countries). To solve this, a helper function `prepare_input_vector` was written in `analyst.py`. It creates a template DataFrame with all zeros (matching the training schema) and fills in *only* the user's values. This ensures the model receives the correct input shape without crashing.

### 5.5.2 Deployment Strategies
Deploying ML models often involves complexity. Common strategies include **Model-as-a-Service**, which involves hosting the model on a dedicated server (e.g., TensorFlow Serving) via Docker containers; this is scalable but complex to set up. Alternatively, the **Embedded Model** approach involves loading the serialized model (Pickle/Joblib) directly into the web server memory. We chose the latter for its simplicity and speed.

## 5.6 Deployment Strategy for Testing
To streamline testing, a unified startup script (`run.bat`) was created. This script automates the entire process: checking for Python/Node installation, installing dependencies (`pip install`, `npm install`), and launching both servers concurrently. This ensured that the application could be reliably started on any Windows machine with a single click, facilitating easy demonstration and verification.

Commit message:

feat: Add initial project report chapters for literature review, results, appendices, and references.

report/05_Implementation.md, after:

# Chapter 5: Implementation

## 5.1 Introduction

With the design blueprints finalized and the methodology defined, the project moved into the Implementation phase. This is where theory meets reality. The objective of this phase was to translate the logical architecture described in Chapter 3 into a tangible, working software product. This required a disciplined approach to coding, version control, and system integration, ensuring that the disparate components—the Machine Learning backend and the React frontend—could operate as a unified whole.

This chapter documents the engineering process. It details the **Development Environment** established to ensure code quality and reproducibility. It then provides a walkthrough of the **Backend Implementation**, explaining how the mathematical models were encapsulated into Python classes and exposed via RESTful APIs. Subsequently, it covers the **Frontend Implementation**, focusing on the user interface design choices that enable non-technical users to interact with complex data. Finally, it discusses the challenge of **Integration**, describing how Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) and asynchronous data fetching were handled to create a seamless user experience.

## 5.2 Development Environment

The project was developed in a robust local environment designed to ensure stability and performance. We utilized **Windows 10/11** as the primary Operating System. The core coding was done in **Visual Studio Code (VS Code)**, enriched with extensions for Python, Prettier, and ESLint to maintain code quality. **Git** was employed for source code management, allowing us to track changes and revert to previous states if necessary. For dependency management, we used `pip` for Python libraries and `npm` for JavaScript packages, ensuring that all libraries were kept up to date and compatible.

## 5.2 Backend Implementation

The backend serves as the "Brain" of the application, hosting the machine learning logic, processing data, and serving the API.

### 5.2.1 Directory Structure and Organization
The backend is organized as a micro-application to separate concerns. The `app.py` file serves as the main entry point, initializing the Flask Server. The `analyst.py` file contains the `YouTubeAnalyst` class, which encapsulates all Machine Learning logic. `requirements.txt` lists the dependencies, and `model.joblib` is the serialized Random Forest Model. This structure allows for easy navigation and maintenance.

### 5.2.2 The Analyst Module (`analyst.py`)
This is the core class responsible for handling data. It handles **Initialization** by loading the CSV dataset and training the model if `model.joblib` is missing. It uses **Encapsulation**, wrapping all logic in the `YouTubeAnalyst` class, following Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) principles. It also defines the **Pipeline**, setting up Scikit-Learn pipelines for preprocessing (Imputation -> Scaling -> Encoding).

### 5.2.3 API Design (`app.py`)
The Flask application exposes RESTful endpoints to communicate with the frontend. `GET /api/health` is a heartbeat endpoint to check if the server is running. `POST /api/predict` is the primary endpoint that accepts a JSON object (subscribers, views, etc.), calls `analyst.predict_earnings()`, and returns a JSON object with `predicted_earnings` (float) and `feature_importance` (dictionary).

**Code Snippet: Prediction Endpoint Detail**
The following code snippet demonstrates how the prediction endpoint is implemented. Note the use of `try-except` blocks to ensure that any errors during inference are caught and returned as a 500 status code, preventing the server from crashing.

```python
@app.route('/api/predict', methods=['POST'])
def predict():
    data = request.json
    try:
        # The 'analyst' object handles the complex logic of converting 
        # raw JSON into a DataFrame compatible with the model.
        prediction, factors = analyst.predict(data)
        
        # We return a standard JSON response expected by the frontend
        return jsonify({
            'status': 'success',
            'prediction': prediction,
            'factors': factors
        })
    except Exception as e:
        # Robust error handling ensures stability
        return jsonify({'error': str(e)}), 500
```

## 5.3 Frontend Implementation

The frontend serves as the "Face" of the application, ensuring a seamless user experience. It interacts with the backend and presents the data in a visually appealing manner.

### 5.3.1 Tech Stack Selection
**Next.js (React)** was chosen for its component-based architecture and fast rendering capabilities. It allows us to build reusable UI elements. **Tailwind CSS** was selected as a utility-first CSS framework. This allowed for rapid, responsive styling without writing thousands of lines of custom CSS, significantly speeding up the development process.

### 5.3.2 Component Architecture
The UI is broken down into reusable components to promote modularity. `PredictionForm.tsx` contains the input fields (controlled components) and validation logic to ensure data integrity. `Dashboard.tsx` acts as the main container that manages state (loading, error, result) and passes data to children components. `FeatureImportanceChart.tsx` is a visualization component using `Recharts` to display the bar chart of influential metrics.

### 5.3.3 State Management
React's `useState` hook is used to manage local state effectively. `formData` stores the user's current input. `predictionResult` stores the response from the Flask API. `isLoading` is a boolean flag used to toggle loading spinners, enhancing UI responsiveness by giving the user immediate visual feedback that a process is running.

## 5.4 Integration

The integration between Frontend and Backend is achieved via HTTP/JSON. We implemented **CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)** using `Flask-CORS`. This was installed on the backend to allow requests from `localhost:3000` (Frontend) to `localhost:5000` (Backend). Without this, the browser would block the API calls for security reasons. We also used **Proxying**, where the Frontend uses JavaScript's `fetch` API to talk to the backend asynchronous endpoints, ensuring a non-blocking user experience.

## 5.5 Challenges & Solutions during Implementation

### 5.5.1 Challenge: Data Shape Mismatch
One significant challenge was **Data Shape Mismatch**. The user inputs only 5-6 fields, but the trained model expects the original 28 columns (including `0` for all non-selected countries). To solve this, a helper function `prepare_input_vector` was written in `analyst.py`. It creates a template DataFrame with all zeros (matching the training schema) and fills in *only* the user's values. This ensures the model receives the correct input shape without crashing.

### 5.5.2 Deployment Strategies
Deploying ML models often involves complexity. Common strategies include **Model-as-a-Service**, which involves hosting the model on a dedicated server (e.g., TensorFlow Serving) via Docker containers; this is scalable but complex to set up. Alternatively, the **Embedded Model** approach involves loading the serialized model (Pickle/Joblib) directly into the web server memory. We chose the latter for its simplicity and speed.

## 5.6 Deployment Strategy for Testing
To streamline testing, a unified startup script (`run.bat`) was created. This script automates the entire process: checking for Python/Node installation, installing dependencies (`pip install`, `npm install`), and launching both servers concurrently. This ensured that the application could be reliably started on any Windows machine with a single click, facilitating easy demonstration and verification.
