report/09_References.md, before:

# Chapter 9: References

1.  **Breiman, L.** (2001). Random Forests. *Machine Learning*, 45(1), 5-32.
2.  **Cheng, X., Dale, C., & Liu, J.** (2008). Statistics and Social Network of YouTube Videos. *2008 16th International Workshop on Quality of Service*.
3.  **Figueiredo, F., Benevenuto, F., & Almeida, J. M.** (2014). The Tube over time: characterizing popularity growth of YouTube videos. *Proceedings of the 4th ACM international conference on Web search and data mining*.
4.  **Goldhaber, M. H.** (1997). The attention economy and the net. *First Monday*, 2(4).
5.  **Grinberg, M.** (2018). *Flask Web Development: Developing Web Applications with Python*. "O'Reilly Media, Inc."
6.  **Hou, M.** (2018). Social media celebrity and the institutionalization of YouTube. *Convergence*.
7.  **Pedregosa, F., et al.** (2011). Scikit-learn: Machine Learning in Python. *Journal of Machine Learning Research*, 12, 2825-2830.
8.  **Richardson, C.** (2018). *Microservices patterns: with examples in Java*. Manning Publications.
9.  **Wooldridge, J. M.** (2012). *Introductory econometrics: A modern approach*. Cengage Learning.
10. **Raunio, J.** (2020). *The Economics of YouTube.* Journal of Digital Media.
11. **Chen, T., & Guestrin, C.** (2016). *XGBoost: A Scalable Tree Boosting System.* KDD '16.
12. **Lundberg, S. M., & Lee, S. I.** (2017). *A Unified Approach to Interpreting Model Predictions.* NIPS.
13. **Quinlan, J. R.** (1986). *Induction of Decision Trees.* Machine Learning, 1(1), 81-106.

Commit message:

Standardized references in Chapter 9 to APA style

report/09_References.md, after:

# Chapter 9: References

# Chapter 9: References

Breiman, L. (2001). Random Forests. *Machine Learning, 45*(1), 5-32. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1010933404324

Chen, T., & Guestrin, C. (2016). XGBoost: A Scalable Tree Boosting System. *Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining*, 785–794.

Cheng, X., Dale, C., & Liu, J. (2008). Statistics and Social Network of YouTube Videos. *2008 16th International Workshop on Quality of Service*, 229-238. IEEE.

Figueiredo, F., Benevenuto, F., & Almeida, J. M. (2011). The Tube over time: characterizing popularity growth of YouTube videos. *Proceedings of the 4th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining*, 745-754.

Goldhaber, M. H. (1997). The attention economy and the Net. *First Monday, 2*(4).

Grinberg, M. (2018). *Flask Web Development: Developing Web Applications with Python* (2nd ed.). O'Reilly Media, Inc.

Hou, M. (2019). Social media celebrity and the institutionalization of YouTube. *Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies, 25*(3), 534–553.

Lundberg, S. M., & Lee, S.-I. (2017). A Unified Approach to Interpreting Model Predictions. *Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS)*, 30, 4765-4774.

Pedregosa, F., Varoquaux, G., Gramfort, A., Michel, V., Thirion, B., Grisel, O., Blondel, M., Prettenhofer, P., Weiss, R., Dubourg, V., Vanderplas, J., Passos, A., Cournapeau, D., Brucher, M., Perrot, M., & Duchesnay, E. (2011). Scikit-learn: Machine Learning in Python. *Journal of Machine Learning Research, 12*, 2825-2830.

Quinlan, J. R. (1986). Induction of Decision Trees. *Machine Learning, 1*(1), 81-106.

Raunio, J. (2020). *The Economics of YouTube*. Journal of Digital Media.

Richardson, C. (2018). *Microservices Patterns: With Examples in Java*. Manning Publications.

Wooldridge, J. M. (2012). *Introductory Econometrics: A Modern Approach* (5th ed.). Cengage Learning.
